(Male narrator) Mealea warned me.
Over dinner,
after a fabulous talk about the ways
in which artifacts are not texts,
or at least are not necessarily texts.
[music plays]
And the ways in which those of us want
everything to be a text can mess things up
trying to make the world match what we
want or even what we need it to be
while not recognizing
the world for what it is.
We want to control the world,
rather than be of the world.
[voices overlap from videos playing]
And so Disney has its own cacophony,
a unique soundscape that only is Disney.
And I’m not only necessarily talking about
what may have popped into your brains:
It’s a Small World, or perhaps (if you are
old enough) the Sunday night
Disney show theme with Tinkerbell arriving
to make the castle tip
glow like a fallen star.
No, I am talking about the incessant,
relentless sales pitch of what
bracket i bracket else bracket
slash i bracket
you can do at the
world’s happiest fucking place
even though you just plunked down
200 bucks for a day of theme park tickets.
And I think: damn! That’s almost
27 hours at minimum wage!
[hard rock music playing]
Marky got with Sharon / And Sharon got
Sharice / She was sharing Sharon's outlook
On the topic of disease / Mikey had a
facial scar / And Bobby was a racist /
They were all in love with dyin' /
They were doing it in Texas.
[overlapping voices]
So I’m in this fucking bus
with two dozen English teachers.
Not English Professors, who are bad
enough, but grizzled boogery middle school
and high school teachers with bad
comb-overs and thematic holiday sweaters
Who give you extra credit for
bringing them cat food coupons,
and double the credit if they’re worth
a free can of icky cat food
and you hope to whatever you deem holy
that they do indeed have fifteen cats...
And the stories of Mister Whiskers padding
across the new translation of Dostoevsky
they are reading religiously evenings over
Earl Grey that there is a Mister Whiskers
and this isn’t a sad, quiet way
of making ends meet
because I live in a country that thinks
teachers aren’t professionals
and its okay for jocks to get the girls
and then take home all the money too
because business administration is much
more important than teaching zitfaced kids
the importance of being . . .
no, too easy a joke.
But you get where that was going,
right health class survivors?
(Sydney Pollock) Now look what happens
if we pan and scan this.
[rock music]
There’s nothing wrong
with that as an image.
But it’s not the image that I
as a filmmaker wanted you to see.
If I wanted to work in this four-by-three
format, I would choose to work in that
and have, often, as many directors have.
And directors do wonderful
movies in that format,
but they know they are
working in that format,
so they give you the information that they
think you need in that format.
[music playing, yelling]
(Pollock) Package toothpaste and told you
you were gonna get half the toothpaste
[Music plays] ♪ I don't mind the
sun sometimes ♪
♪ The images it shows ♪
(Narrator) I can taste you on my lips
And smell you in my clothes
Cinnamon and sugary
And softly spoken lies.
[owl call]
You never know just how you look
Through other people's eyes.
[owl call]
And the fucking relentless soundtrack
is blaring in my ears,
telling me how I have to get
this and that attraction,
and that even when I’m exhausted I can
spend more to get rejuvenated
to go out and spend yet more
because the hype is all about
maximizing the cash flow
while you’re in the park.
[rock music]
And I’m sitting there thinking about and
counting all the hours that it takes
to make a two-day park-hopper
pass at $7.75 an hour,
listening to not just how much I’ve just
flushed into the rich man’s pockets,
but how much more still
there is in my pockets
that he (some faceless he -- worse to me
than Winston’s big man will ever be to me
Because this dillwad’s actually got
his hands in my fucking pockets
[voices overlap]
taking the cash out, one digit at
a time) he, he has every right to do it,
[gun shot]
and in my own small way, I’m obligated to
bend over and take the rogering because,
well, it was my own damn free will
that had me down here
in Baudrillard's backyard,
watching vultures (how appropriate) taking
a rest on their commute to the Yucatan.
[shouting]
Some will die in hot pursuit /
And fiery auto crashes /
While sifting through my ashes /
Some will fall in love with life /
And drink it from a fountain /
That is pouring like an avalanche /
Coming down the mountain.
(Pollock) If a director chooses
to tell a story
for whatever reason in this ratio,
because they want all this information,
[movie sounds, rock music]
it’s not fair for somebody else
to tell you with our name on it,
[shouting]
that this is what we shot.
[music, yeeha shout]
I didn’t shoot that.
[rock music]
[arrow shot]
[gunshot]
[rock guitar]
[guitar solo playing]
[steady drums]
[guitar]
[music fades out]